# Password-Generator-Project-Cpp

## Description
PassGen 2.0 is a password generator program that allows users to generate passwords with different levels of complexity. It provides two options: generating easy-to-remember passwords (weak) and generating actually random passwords (strong).

* The "easy-to-remember" passwords generated by PassGen 2.0 are designed to be simple and memorable. They consist of a combination of consonants, vowels, special characters, and numbers. This option is suitable for situations where a password needs to be easily remembered but may not provide the highest level of security.

* The "actually random" passwords generated by PassGen 2.0 are more complex and offer a higher level of security. They are generated using a combination of uppercase and lowercase letters, special characters, and numbers. This option is suitable for situations where a strong and secure password is required.

## How to Set Up and Run
To run PassGen 2.0, follow these steps:
* Download the executable file
* Run it.
### Running The program
Upon running the program, you will be presented with the following options:
```
Welcome to PassGen 2.0!

(1) Generate easy-to-remember password (weak)
(2) Generate actually random password (strong)
(3) Exit
```
* To generate a password, enter the corresponding option number and press Enter. If you choose to generate an easy-to-remember password (weak), the program will create a password using a combination of consonants, vowels, a special character, and a number. If you choose to generate an actually random password (strong), the program will create a password using a random selection of characters.
* After selecting the password type, you will be prompted to enter the desired password size. Enter the size and press Enter.
* The generated password will be displayed in the console:
```
----------------
Generated Password
----------------
[password]
----------------
```
* To generate more passwords, you can choose the options again. To exit the program, choose option 3.

## Example Usage
* Here is an example of how you can use the PassGen 2.0 program:
```
Welcome to PassGen 2.0!

(1) Generate easy-to-remember password (weak)
(2) Generate actually random password (strong)
(3) Exit

Select password type: 2

Select password size: 12

----------------
Generated Password
----------------
wQ#x6VjZd3Tf
----------------

(1) Generate easy-to-remember password (weak)
(2) Generate actually random password (strong)
(3) Exit

Select password type: 1

Select password size: 8

----------------
Generated Password
----------------
lipeE!?4
----------------

(1) Generate easy-to-remember password (weak)
(2) Generate actually random password (strong)
(3) Exit

Select password type: 3
```
* In this example, two passwords are generated—one strong password with a size of 12 characters and one weak password with a size of 8 characters. Finally, the program is exited by selecting option 3.

## Feel free to explore and generate passwords using PassGen 2.0!
